Now welcome to the second lesson.
At this point, you should be able to start your own threads,
block them using a barrier,
and also pass data to them during thread creation.
Also, you had your first brush with a concurrency buck,
when several threads access the same memory location at the same time.
Now the main theme of this lesson will be to pass
data to the thread after it has been created.
Let's take a look at the content.
First, we will look at the private communication channel
between two threads that can be used only a single time,
but at an arbitrary moment in time of our choosing,
well after that creation.
Now the concept behind this channel is called promises and futures,
and these can be used to pass both data,
as well as exceptions from a worker thread to the parent thread which created the worker.
Secondly in this lesson,
we will look at the differences between threads and tasks.
Now tasks are a high-level concept where the system can
choose whether to execute some code in parallel or synchronously.
Also tasks make it really easy to establish
a promise future link in your code, which is much,
much less code to write than with the standard threads we have been using so far.
We will also take a look at the run time advantage or
disadvantage of parallel execution, and thirdly,
one of the major topics in this lesson is passing data to a thread by value,
that is making a copy of it as well as using move semantics.
Now move semantics is a very powerful concept in C++,
it has been added with C++11 and which avoids making unnecessary copies of your data,
while at the same time avoiding some of the dangers of passing by reference.
It's something you should really learn when you want to go into concurrency.
Forth, talking about the letter,
we will also take a close look at data races which are one
of the primary sources of error and concurrent programming.
So as you see, there is a lot to be learned,
let's start right away.